# admin-frontend

A simple web frontend for administrating user accounts and channels, allowing for things like password changes and mass upload of users. Based on the [vue](https://vuejs.org) framework.

## Running

This is just a static webpage. Serve it via httpd or something.

## Options

Options are located at the top of ```./assets/js/index.js```.

Option | Description
------ | -----------
ACCOUNTS_URL | URL pointing to the *accounts* service.
ADMIN_URL | URL pointing to the *admin* service.

## Features

Feedback from any actions will be displayed in a status window located at the bottom of the page.

### Login

While the user accounts and password schtick will let any credentials through, these credentials will be the ones that are used when querying the backend to make changes to the database. Hence, enter your database credentials here.

### User creation

The user creations utility is in two parts, a single-creation utility and a mass creation utility.

The single user creation utility is comparatively simple; Just fill in the blanks with the appropriate information and hit submit. If the password field is left blank, a password will be autogenerated and displayed in the status window.

The mass creation utility accepts a csv file, with new entries being delimited by newlines, following the format of ```[id], [name], [email], [password], [gender], [dob]```.

Parameter | Description
--------- | -----------
id | The userid of the user.
name | The user's name.
email | The user's email. Used for openid.
password | The user's password. Leave this field blank to autogenerate one.
gender | The user's gender. Use either 'm' or 'f'.
dob | The user's date of birth, in JS Date format.

### Querying a user

A user can be queried via his userid. From there, his data can be changed, including his password, or his account deleted entirely.
